---
layout: upcoming
permalink: /upcoming/
---

“Spacetime” is an extremely powerful word, carrying with it a wide range of connotations, with ideas dating as far as Aristotle, and evolving through the works of Newton and Leibniz. Einstein’s formulation of relativity forcefully brings to the fore the role of spacetime as a backdrop for all of physics. It also redefines gravity itself as a manifestation of spacetime geometry, famously predicting the final fate of extremely collapsed self-gravitating objects as Black Holes, which are “_… the most perfect macroscopic objects there are in the universe: the only elements in their construction are our concepts of space and time_”. There can be no better testimony to the powerful role of spacetime in describing the universe than the above words of Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar. Classical black holes are extremely interesting objects indeed, but the story gets better when quantum effects are included.

Over the last few decades, research into quantum effects in a curved spacetime have yielded several insights into the nature of spacetime at the smallest possible scales. Beginning with Hawking’s derivation of quantum radiation from black holes, several insights have been gained into what might be the fate of a quantum spacetime. The well known Heisenberg microscope that is often used to demonstrate the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics, when used along with the idea of black holes from general relativity, provides a picture of quantum spacetime which has a fundamental bound on measurement of spacetime intervals. I will briefly describe these ideas and its future prospects, and the clues it can give for quantum gravity.
